    NO LONGER MAINTAINED. There are surely better tools for this out there now.
h1. AutoExcerpt

pre. [sudo] gem install auto_excerpt

Creates excerpts of html formatted text.

pre. AutoExcerpt.new("<span>This is <strong>some</strong> fancy html formatted text homie</span>", {:words => 5})
    #   => "<span>This is <strong>some</strong> fancy html...</span>"

h3. Features

  * There are 4 different ways to limit the length of an excerpt: *characters*, *words*, *sentences*, *paragraphs*
  * If the excerpt would be shorter than the limit that is set, the entire text will be shown.
  * If limiting by *characters* the gem will ensure that the excerpt does not cutoff in the middle of a word.
  * HTML can be stripped. You can also set specific tags that you don't want stripped.
  * HTML tags are automatically closed.

h3. Options

@:characters@
The number of characters to display from the text.
Default: 150 (does not need to be set to 0 if you choose another option)

_If you need to be 100% accurate in your character count, then remove the @:ending@_

pre. AutoExcerpt.new("<h1>Hello World!</h1>", {:characters => 5, :ending => nil})
     # => <h1>Hello</h1>

@:words@, @:sentences@, @:paragraphs@
The number of [which] to display from the text.

@:ending@
The text that will be displayed at the end of the excerpt when generating the excerpt by length or words. Set to @nil@ if you don't want it.
Default: "..."

pre. AutoExcerpt.new("This is cool stuff man!", :ending => ". Srsly!", :words => 3)
    # => "This is cool. Srsly!"

@:strip_html@
Strips HTML tags from the excerpt that is displayed.
Default: false

@:allowed_tags@
If using @:strip_html@ then this setting will allow the listed tags to be shown.
default: []

pre. AutoExcerpt.new("<p>This <em>is</em> some <strong>formatted</strong> html</p>", {:strip_html => true, :allowed_tags => %w(p em)})
    # => "<p>This <em>is</em> some formatted html</p>"

@:strip_paragraphs@
Strip all paragraph tags from the html.
Default: false

@:skip_words@, @:skip_sentences@, @:skip_paragraphs@
The number of [which] to skip at the beginning of the html when returned.
Default: 0

h3. Command Line

*new: v0.7.1* Run @auto_excerpt@ from the command line with all of the options shown above!
@$ auto_excerpt --words 10 "<p>Some html string</p>"@

h2. Help out on Github!

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile, Version, or LICENSE.
* Send me a pull request :)
* Thanks for helping out!

h2. Credits

This is based on the rss_auto_excerpt plugin for Textpattern by the great "Rob Sable":http://www.wilshireone.com.

h3. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Kabari Hendrick. See LICENSE for details.
